# Methods Collection

## Integer
    
- __digits [integer -> array]__: Returns the digits of integer's place-value representation with radix base (default: 10). The digits are returned as an array with the least significant digit as the first array element.

- __how to find the last digit of a number__: number % 10

- __Integer.sqrt(x) [Integer -> Integer]__: Returns the integer square root of the non-negative integer x, i.e. the largest non-negative integer less than or equal to the square root of n.

        Integer.sqrt(0)        #=> 0
        Integer.sqrt(1)        #=> 1
        Integer.sqrt(24)       #=> 4
        Integer.sqrt(25)       #=> 5

- __Math.sqrt(x) [Integer -> Float]__:Returns the non-negative square root of x. 
If want to check if x is a square number:

        Math.sqrt(x) % 1 == 0 (Ruby consider 0.0 == 0)


## String
   
- __split [string -> array]__: Divides str into substrings based on a delimiter, returning an array of these substrings.

- __scan(/\w+/) [string -> array][regex]__: will achieve the same effect as .split.

- __chars[string -> array]__: Returns an array of characters in str. This is a shorthand for str.each_char.to_a.
    
- __each_char__: Passes each character in str to the given block, or returns an enumerator if no block is given.
`"hello".each_char {|c| print c, ' ' } #=> h e l l o `

- __partition [string -> array]__: Searches sep or pattern (regexp) in the string and returns the part before it, the match, and the part after it. If it is not found, returns two empty strings and str.
*partition(sep) → [head, sep, tail]
*partition(regexp) → [head, match, tail]

        [0, 1, 2].partition(&:odd?) #=>  [[1], [0, 2]]
        [1, 2, 3].partition(&:odd?) #=> [[1, 3], [2]]

__find(&:one?)__: 

        [0, 1, 2].partition(&:odd?).find(&:one?) #=>  [1]
        [1, 2, 3].partition(&:odd?).find(&:one?) #=>  [2]


## Array

- __with_index__: Iterates the given block for each element with an index.

        a = [ "a", "b", "c", "d" ]
        a.map.with_index {|x, i| x * i}   #=> ["", "b", "cc", "ddd"]

- __map [array -> array]__: Invokes the given block once for each element of self. Creates a new array containing the values returned by the block.
    
- __sum [array]__: Returns the sum of elements. 
    
- __join [array -> string]__: Returns a string created by converting each element of the array to a string, separated by the given separator. 
    
- __delete_if [array -> array]__: Deletes every element of self for which block evaluates to true.

        scores = [ 97, 42, 75 ]    #=> scores.delete_if {|score| score < 80 }   #=> [97]

- __reject [array -> array](See also .delete_if)__: Returns a new array containing the items in self for which the given block is not true. The ordering of non-rejected elements is maintained. 

- __select [array -> array] (See also .filter)__: Returns a new array containing all elements of ary for which the given block returns a true value.

        [1,2,3,4,5].select {|num| num.even? }     #=> [2, 4]
        a = %w[ a b c d e f ]
        a.select {|v| v =~ /[aeiou]/ }    #=> ["a", "e"]

- __keep_if [array -> array](See also .select)__: Deletes every element of self for which the given block evaluates to false, and returns self.

        a = %w[ a b c d e f ]
        a.keep_if {|v| v =~ /[aeiou]/ }    #=> ["a", "e"]
        a                                  #=> ["a", "e"]


- __sort_by__: sort in ascending order. In order to sort in descending order, either use '.sort_by.reverse' or 'sort_by -results[k] (negative numbers)'

- __first__: Returns the first element, or the first n elements, of the array. 
    
- __last__: Returns the last element(s) of self. 

- __min__: Returns the object in ary with the minimum value. 


## Hash

- __sort_by__: Sorts enum using a set of keys generated by mapping the values in enum through the given block.
- __zip__: Takes one element from enum and merges corresponding elements from each args. 
- __select__: Returns a new hash consisting of entries for which the block returns true.
- __each_with_index__: Calls block with two arguments, the item and its index, for each item in enum. Given arguments are passed through to each().

        hash = Hash.new
        %w(cat dog wombat).each_with_index { |item, index|
            hash[item] = index
        }
        hash   #=> {"cat"=>0, "dog"=>1, "wombat"=>2}


## Misc

- __is_a? [object -> boolean]__: Returns true if class is the class of obj, or if class is one of the superclasses of obj or modules included in obj.

- __grep [pattern -> array]__: Returns an array of every element in enum for which Pattern === element. If the optional block is supplied, each matching element is passed to it, and the block's result is stored in the output array.

        (1..100).grep 38..44   #=> [38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44] 
        .grep(Numeric)         #=> an array of numbers
 
- __How to create a Fibonacci sequence__ (1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13):

        def fibonacci(nth_num)
                p arr = (2..nth_num).inject([1]) { |x| x << x.last(2).sum}  # return the array of Fibonacci sequence
                        # .inject([1]: set the first element of array as '1'
                        # (2..nth_num): we alreay have 1 elements in array, so next element starts from 2
			# {|x| x << x.last(2).sum}: add the last 2 elements & push the value back to array
        end

- __Same method also applies to a Tribonacci sequence__ [1, 1, 2, 4, 7]:

Tribonacci will take the last 3 inputs (as oppose to 2), and add them together to get another value. 
Create a method that will be given an array and an integer as it's argument. The array will hold the first 3 numbers of the tribonacci sequence, whilst the integer will be the nth number of the sequence we want to access.

        def tribonacci(nums, nth_num)
                p arr = (4..nth_num).inject(nums) {|x| x << x.last(3).sum }
                        #.inject(nums): set the first 3 elements of array as nums
                        # (4..nth_num): we alreay have 3 elements in array, so next element starts from 4
                        # {|x| x << x.last(3).sum}: add the last 3 elements & push the value back to array
        end

        tribonacci([1,1,2], 5) # 7 
        tribonacci([5,6,11], 9) #449


## Shorthand

- integers.count {|x| x.even?} == integers.count(&:even?) 